[RF-DOCS ] Update Upgrading Rails Guide [ci-skip] (#4)
OughtPuts/rails: guides/source/upgrading_ruby_on_rails.md

Upgrading Ruby on Rails
=======================

This guide provides steps to be followed when you upgrade an application to a
newer version of Ruby on Rails. These steps are also available in individual
release guides.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General Advice
--------------

Before attempting to upgrade an existing application, you should be sure you
have a good reason to upgrade. You need to balance several factors: the need for
new features, gem compatibility, the increasing difficulty of finding support

> for old code and your available time and skills, to name a few.

Reviewer: (non-blocking, suggestion): I felt that this reads a bit awkward, and I took a stab at rephrasing.

```suggestion
Before upgrading an existing application, make sure you have a clear reason for
doing so. Weigh factors such as the need for new features, gem compatibility,
the decreasing availability of support for older code, and the time and skills
you have available.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this less defeatist rephrasing is good improvement.
Upgrades of recent version should be much easier than 3.2 to 4.0, for example.

And while I think it is good to warn about attempting to upgrade, I think keeping up-to-date with the latest release is much more encouraged these days (with companies running on main) compared to 2011, when this guide was first written.

I think it would be a good idea to have a paragraph before this that recommends/encourages upgrading.
Maybe something like:
```
Newer Rails versions introduce new features and performance improvements.
Keeping your Rails application up to date with maintained versions makes sure your application keeps getting security fixes.
```

Author: Great, thanks both! I put the recommendation after the intro paragraph instead so we end on a positive :) as follows:

Upgrading an application can be a difficult process, so make sure you have a clear reason for doing so. Weigh up factors such as the need for new features, gem compatibility, the decreasing availability of support for older code and the time and skills you have available.

Newer Rails versions introduce new features and improvements, so keeping your application up to date with maintained versions will ensure it receives these benefits.

### Test Coverage

The best way to be sure that your application still works after upgrading
something is to have good test coverage before you start the process. If you
don't have automated tests that exercise the bulk of your application, you'll
need to spend time manually exercising all the parts that have changed. In the
case of a Rails upgrade, that will mean every single piece of functionality in
the application. Do yourself a favor and make sure your test coverage is good

> _before_ you start an upgrade.

Reviewer: (non-blocking, suggestion):

I took a stab at making it less wordy, and that last sentence "Do yourself a favor and make sure your test coverage is good _before_ you start an upgrade." seems a bit passive aggressive as well. 

```suggestion
The best way to ensure your application still works after an upgrade is to have
strong test coverage in place before you begin. Without automated tests that
cover most of your application, you’ll need to manually verify every part that
might be affected. For a Rails upgrade, that could mean testing nearly all
functionality. Having solid test coverage in advance will make the upgrade
process much smoother.
```

### Ruby Versions

When a new version of Rails is released, it's typically designed to work with
(and take advantage of) the most recent stable version of Ruby that is available
at the time. For example:

* Rails 8.0 requires Ruby 3.2.0 or newer.
* Rails 7.2 requires Ruby 3.1.0 or newer.
* Rails 7.0 and 7.1 requires Ruby 2.7.0 or newer.
* Rails 6 requires Ruby 2.5.0 or newer.
* Rails 5 requires Ruby 2.2.2 or newer.

It's a good idea to upgrade Ruby and Rails separately. Upgrade to the latest

> Ruby you can first, and then upgrade Rails.

Reviewer 3: This kinds leaves the reader with the question "so, how do I update my Ruby version?" so maybe it makes sense to include something line this:

"Refer to your Ruby package manager (e.g. mise) for instructions on how to update your Ruby version based on your operating system."

I was hesitant to mention a specific package manager, but we already "endorse" mise in this guide https://guides.rubyonrails.org/install_ruby_on_rails.html

Author: Good idea. I think I might leave the package manager out though as I remember Matthew saying in the other guide we're working on that we end up getting loads of requests from external organisations for inclusion in the list if we go down the road of mentioning specifics, so maybe I'll avoid for now.

### The Upgrade Process

When changing Rails versions, it's best to move slowly, one minor version at a
time, in order to make good use of the deprecation warnings. Rails version
numbers are in the form Major.Minor.Patch. Major and Minor versions are allowed

> to make changes to the public API, so this may cause errors in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
numbers are in the form Major.Minor.Patch. Major and Minor versions can include
changes to the public API, so this may cause errors in your application.
```

Patch versions only include bug fixes, and don't change the public API.

> The process should go as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process should be as follows:
```

> The process should go as follows:

Reviewer 3: Not everyone does upgrades this way in practice...so maybe being less prescriptive to match the tone of our other guides, something like this is better?

```suggestion
The recommended upgrade process is as follows:
```

To move between versions:

1. Change the Rails version number in the `Gemfile` and run `bundle update
   rails`.
2. Change the versions for Rails JavaScript packages in `package.json` and run

>    `bin/rails javascript:install` if running jsbundling-rails.

Reviewer: Since Import Maps is the recommended method for managing JavaScript in the latest version of Rails, should we make any special mention/command for that?

Author: I've gone for: 

2. If you are using import maps via [importmap-rails](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails), update any pinned Javascript packages if required by running `bin/importmap pin <package-name>`.

3. If you are using traditional Javascript bundling instead (using jsbundling-rails) change the versions for Rails JavaScript packages in `package.json` and run `bin/rails javascript:install`.

Let me know @Ridhwana @p8 if you have any additional suggestions.

...
```

> Don't forget to review the difference to see if there were any unexpected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should review the difference to see if there were any unexpected
```

changes. Note that the tools used during this process can be defined using the

> `THOR_DIFF` and `THOR_MERGE` environment variables. For example:

Reviewer 3: I was going to suggest putting this in a TIP. But with the added code snippet the way you have it seems good 👍

> `THOR_DIFF` and `THOR_MERGE` environment variables. For example:

Reviewer 2: TIL 👀

```bash
# Use VS Code
$ export THOR_DIFF="code --diff"
$ export THOR_MERGE="code --merge" 
$ bin/rails app:update

# Use vimdiff
$ export THOR_DIFF="vimdiff"
$ export THOR_MERGE="vimdiff"
$ bin/rails app:update
```

NOTE: The `bin/rails app:update` command is only relevant when changing between

> releases (e.g. 8.0 to 8.1) and not between patch level versions (e.g. 7.1.2 to

Reviewer: Should we use the term "minor" version here instead of release to keep it consistent with how we described MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH?

Author: Nice, yeah I think that's clearer.

7.1.3).

### Configure Framework Defaults

The new Rails version might have different configuration defaults than the

> previous version. However, if after following the steps described above your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
previous version. However, if after following the steps described above, your
```

application still runs with configuration defaults from the *previous* Rails
version, it's because the value for `config.load_defaults` in
`config/application.rb` has not been changed yet.

> To allow you to upgrade to new defaults one by one, the update task has created

Reviewer: Should we link to the update task from here too?

```suggestion
To allow you to upgrade to new defaults one by one, the [update task](#the-update-task) has created
```

a file `config/initializers/new_framework_defaults_X_Y.rb` (with the desired

> Rails version in the filename). You should enable the new configuration defaults

Reviewer: It would be good to see an example of this filename, if the user has not done this before, it may not be obvious what "(with the desired Rails version in the filename)" means

by uncommenting them in the file; this can be done gradually over several
deployments. Once your application is ready to run with new defaults, you can

> remove this file and flip the `config.load_defaults` value.

Reviewer 2: I think `flip` is more commonly used for booleans, instead of numbers.
So maybe:
```suggestion
remove this file and bump the `config.load_defaults` value.
```
Or...
```suggestion
remove this file and increment the `config.load_defaults` value.
```

Upgrading from Rails 8.0 to Rails 8.1
-------------------------------------

> TIP: Consider using the [update task](#the-update-task) to help you manage the

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to have this tip in all sections.

TIP: Consider using the [update task](#the-update-task) to help you manage the
changes in an interactive session.

For more information on changes made to Rails 8.0 please see the [release
notes](8_0_release_notes.html).

Upgrading from Rails 7.1 to Rails 7.2
-------------------------------------

TIP: Consider using the [update task](#the-update-task) to help you manage the
changes in an interactive session.

For more information on changes made to Rails 7.2 please see the [release
notes](7_2_release_notes.html).

### All tests now respect the `active_job.queue_adapter` config

If you have set `config.active_job.queue_adapter` in your
`config/application.rb` or `config/environments/test.rb` file, the adapter you
selected was previously not used consistently across all tests. In some tests
your adapter would be used, but other tests would use the `TestAdapter`.

In Rails 7.2, all tests will respect the `queue_adapter` config if provided.
This may cause test errors, if you had set the `queue_adapter` config to
something other than `:test`, but written tests in a way that was dependent on
the `TestAdapter`.

If no config is provided, the `TestAdapter` will continue to be used.

> Upgrading from Rails 7.0 to Rails 7.1

Reviewer: Are we able to make these subheadings more concise and shorter? They are quite long and if I'm being honest dont male complete sense to me when read in isolation.

<img width="1008" height="1352" alt="CleanShot 2025-08-17 at 14 24 09@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2c2bbf16-6ae1-4cd4-8c4e-d4988f03d527" />

Author: @Ridhwana thanks for this one! I'm having a look but it occurred to me it's quite nice to see a sort of one-sentence summary of the changes in that release when the reader looks down the list of subheadings. If we shorten them e.g. 'all tests now respect the active_job.queue_adapter config' -> 'tests and active_job.queue_adapter' I think we lose information about the nature of the change.

Is the above what you had in mind or have you got a better solution? Also, which don't make sense to you? I can have a go at rewording some specific sub headings if you think they are badly worded.

-------------------------------------

TIP: Consider using the [update task](#the-update-task) to help you manage the
changes in an interactive session.

For more information on changes made to Rails 7.1 please see the [release
notes](7_1_release_notes.html).

> ### Development and test environments secret_key_base file changed

Reviewer: Maybe this could be 

```suggestion
### `secret_key_base` file updates
```

In development and test environments, the file from which Rails reads the
`secret_key_base` has been renamed from `tmp/development_secret.txt` to

> `tmp/local_secret.txt`.

Reviewer: In development and test environments, Rails now reads the `secret_key_base` from
a file named `tmp/local_secret.txt`, instead of  `tmp/development_secret.txt`.

> You can simply rename the previous file to `local_secret.txt` to continue using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can rename the previous file to `local_secret.txt` to continue using
```

the same secret, or copy the key from the previous file to the new one.

> Failure to do so will cause Rails to generate a new secret key in the new file

Reviewer: Tried to keep the tone to be more natural, but feel free to ignore

```suggestion
If Rails does not find a a file called `tmp/local_secret.txt`, then Rails will generate a new secret key and store it in the new file.```

### `ActiveStorage::BaseController` no longer includes the streaming concern

Application controllers that inherit from `ActiveStorage::BaseController` and
use streaming to implement custom file serving logic must now explicitly include
the `ActiveStorage::Streaming` module.

### `MemCacheStore` and `RedisCacheStore` now use connection pooling by default

The `connection_pool` gem has been added as a dependency of the `activesupport`

> gem, and the `MemCacheStore` and `RedisCacheStore` now use connection pooling by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gem, and as a result the `MemCacheStore` and `RedisCacheStore` now use connection pooling by
```

default.

> If you don't want to use connection pooling, set `:pool` option to `false` when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to use connection pooling, set the `:pool` option to `false` when
```

config.cache_store = :mem_cache_store, "cache.example.com", { pool: false }
```

> See the [caching with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Caching with
```

Author: Great spot!

Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.1/caching_with_rails.html#connection-pool-options)
guide for more information.

> ### `SQLite3Adapter` now configured to be used in a strict strings mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `SQLite3Adapter` is configured to be used in a strict strings mode
```

The use of a strict strings mode disables double-quoted string literals.

SQLite has some quirks around double-quoted string literals. It first tries to
consider double-quoted strings as identifier names, but if they don't exist it
then considers them as string literals. Because of this, typos can silently go
unnoticed. For example, it is possible to create an index for a non existing
column. See [SQLite
documentation](https://www.sqlite.org/quirks.html#double_quoted_string_literals_are_accepted)
for more details.

> If you don't want to use `SQLite3Adapter` in a strict mode, you can disable this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to use the `SQLite3Adapter` in strict mode, you can disable this
```

### Support multiple preview paths for `ActionMailer::Preview`

> Option `config.action_mailer.preview_path` is deprecated in favor of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `config.action_mailer.preview_path` option is deprecated in favor of
```

`config.action_mailer.preview_paths`. Appending paths to this configuration
option will cause those paths to be used in the search for mailer previews.

```ruby
config.action_mailer.preview_paths << "#{Rails.root}/lib/mailer_previews"
```

> ### `config.i18n.raise_on_missing_translations = true` now raises on any missing translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `config.i18n.raise_on_missing_translations = true` raises on any missing translation.
```

> Previously it would only raise when called in a view or controller. Now it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, `config.i18n.raise_on_missing_translations = true` would only raise when called in a view or controller. Now it will
```

I18n.t("missing.key") # didn't raise in 7.0, doesn't raise in 7.1
```

Alternatively, you can customise the `I18n.exception_handler`. See the [i18n
guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.1/i18n.html#using-different-exception-handlers)
for more information.

`AbstractController::Translation.raise_on_missing_translations` has been
removed. This was a private API, if you were relying on it you should migrate to
`config.i18n.raise_on_missing_translations` or to a custom exception handler.

> ### `bin/rails test` now runs `test:prepare` task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `bin/rails test` runs `test:prepare` task
```

> When running tests via `bin/rails test`, the `rake test:prepare` task will run
> before tests run. If you've enhanced the `test:prepare` task, your enhancements
> will run before your tests. `tailwindcss-rails`, `jsbundling-rails`, and
> `cssbundling-rails` enhance this task, as do other third party gems.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what enhancements are, so I took a stab at rephrasing but not sure if its accurate:

```suggestion
When running tests with `bin/rails test`, the `rake test:prepare` task is executed 
beforehand. If you (or your application) have added custom code, hooks, or extra 
steps into test:prepare, for example, seeding the test database, loading fixtures, 
or performing setup tasks — those additions will also be executed before the tests run.
Gems such as `tailwindcss-rails`, `jsbundling-rails`, `cssbundling-rails`, and other 
third-party libraries may also extend this task.
```

Author: @Ridhwana my understanding of this is that it's referring to the 'enhance' method that you can call on a rake task (i.e., https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1689504/how-do-i-make-a-rake-task-run-after-all-other-tasks-i-e-a-rake-afterbuild-tas)

How about: 

```suggestion
When running tests via `bin/rails test`, the `rake test:prepare` task will run
before tests run. If you've called the `enhance` method on the `test:prepare` task, any prerequisite tasks
will run before your tests. `tailwindcss-rails`, `jsbundling-rails`, and
`cssbundling-rails` also enhance this task, as do other third party gems.
```

See the [Testing Rails
Applications](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html#running-tests-in-continuous-integration-ci)
guide for more information.

> If you run a single file's tests (`bin/rails test test/models/user_test.rb`),
> `test:prepare` will not run before it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running tests for a single file (for example, `bin/rails test test/models/user_test.rb`), the rake `test:prepare` task will not be run.
```

Reviewer: will not run before it, makes it sound like it still could be run after or at a different time?

### Import syntax from `@rails/ujs` is modified

> Starting from Rails 7.1, the syntax for importing modules from `@rails/ujs` is

Reviewer: (nitpick)

```suggestion
As of Rails 7.1, the syntax for importing modules from `@rails/ujs` is
```

### `Rails.logger` now returns an `ActiveSupport::BroadcastLogger` instance

> The `ActiveSupport::BroadcastLogger` class is a new logger that allows to
> broadcast logs to different sinks (STDOUT, a log file...) in an easy way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ActiveSupport::BroadcastLogger` class is a new logger that makes it easy to 
broadcast logs to multiple destinations, such as STDOUT or a log file.
```

puts Rails.logger.broadcasts #=> [MyLogger]
```

[assert_match]:
    https://docs.seattlerb.org/minitest/Minitest/Assertions.html#method-i-assert_match

### Active Record Encryption algorithm changes

Active Record Encryption now uses SHA-256 as its hash digest algorithm. If you
have data encrypted with previous Rails versions, there are two scenarios to
consider:

1. If you have `config.active_support.key_generator_hash_digest_class`
   configured as SHA-1 (the default before Rails 7.0), you need to configure
   SHA-1 for Active Record Encryption too:

    ```ruby
    config.active_record.encryption.hash_digest_class = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA1
    ```

>     If all of your data was encrypted non-deterministicly (the default unless
>     `encrypts` is passed `deterministic: true`, you can instead configure
>     SHA-256 for Active Record Encryption as in scenario 2 below and also allow
>     columns previously encrypted with SHA-1 to be decrypted by setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all of your data was encrypted non-deterministically (this was the default, unless `encrypts` was passed `deterministic: true`), you can configure Active Record Encryption to use SHA-256 as shown in scenario 2 
below, while still allowing columns previously encrypted with SHA-1 to be decrypted by setting:
```

    ```ruby
    config.active_record.encryption.support_sha1_for_non_deterministic_encryption = true
    ```

2. If you have `config.active_support.key_generator_hash_digest_class`
   configured as SHA-256 (the new default in 7.0), then you need to configure
   SHA-256 for Active Record Encryption:

    ```ruby
    config.active_record.encryption.hash_digest_class = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA256
    ```

See the [Configuring Rails
Applications](configuring.html#config-active-record-encryption-hash-digest-class)
guide for more information on
`config.active_record.encryption.hash_digest_class`.

In addition, a new configuration
[`config.active_record.encryption.support_sha1_for_non_deterministic_encryption`](configuring.html#config-active-record-encryption-support-sha1-for-non-deterministic-encryption)

> was introduced to resolve [a bug](https://github.com/rails/rails/issues/42922)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has been introduced to resolve [a bug](https://github.com/rails/rails/issues/42922)
```

### Spring

If your application uses Spring, it needs to be upgraded to at least version
3.0.0. Otherwise you'll get

```
undefined method `mechanism=' for ActiveSupport::Dependencies:Module
```

Also, make sure [`config.cache_classes`][] is set to `false` in
`config/environments/test.rb`.

[`config.cache_classes`]: configuring.html#config-cache-classes

### Sprockets is now an optional dependency

The gem `rails` doesn't depend on `sprockets-rails` anymore. If your application
still needs to use Sprockets, make sure to add `sprockets-rails` to your
Gemfile.

```ruby
gem "sprockets-rails"
```

### Applications need to run in `zeitwerk` mode

Applications still running in `classic` mode have to switch to `zeitwerk` mode.
Please check the [Classic to Zeitwerk
HOWTO](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.0/classic_to_zeitwerk_howto.html) guide
for details.

### The setter `config.autoloader=` has been deleted

> In Rails 7 there is no configuration point to set the autoloading mode,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Rails 7, there is no configuration point to set the autoloading mode,
```

### Ability to configure `config.autoload_once_paths`

[`config.autoload_once_paths`][] can be set in the body of the application class
defined in `config/application.rb` or in the configuration for environments in
`config/environments/*`.

Similarly, engines can configure that collection in the class body of the engine
class or in the configuration for environments.

After that, the collection is frozen, and you can autoload from those paths. In
particular, you can autoload from there during initialization. They are managed
by the `Rails.autoloaders.once` autoloader, which does not reload, only
autoloads/eager loads.

If you configured this setting after the environments configuration has been
processed and are getting `FrozenError`, please just move the code.

[`config.autoload_once_paths`]: configuring.html#config-autoload-once-paths

### `ActionDispatch::Request#content_type` now returns Content-Type header as it is.

Previously, `ActionDispatch::Request#content_type` returned value does NOT

> contain charset part. This behavior changed to returned Content-Type header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contain the charset part. This behavior changed to returned Content-Type header
```

> containing charset part as it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containing the charset part as it is.
```

> If you want just MIME type, please use `ActionDispatch::Request#media_type`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use just MIME type, please use `ActionDispatch::Request#media_type`
```

encrypted cookies.

> In order to be able to read messages using the old digest class it is necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to read messages using the old digest class, it is necessary
```

### Digest class for ActiveSupport::Digest changing to SHA256

> The default digest class for ActiveSupport::Digest is changing from SHA1 to
> SHA256. This has consequences for things like Etags that will change and cache
> keys as well. Changing these keys can have impact on cache hit rates, so be
> careful and watch out for this when upgrading to the new hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default digest class for `ActiveSupport::Digest` is changing from SHA1 to 
SHA256. This affects values such as ETags and cache keys, which will also 
change. Since altering these keys can impact cache hit rates, monitor your 
application when upgrading to the new hash.
```

config.load_defaults 7.0
```

> However Rails 6.1 applications are not able to read this new serialization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails 6.1 applications are not able to read this new serialization
```

format, so to ensure a seamless upgrade you must first deploy your Rails 7.0
upgrade with `config.active_support.cache_format_version = 6.1`, and then only
once all Rails processes have been updated you can set
`config.active_support.cache_format_version = 7.0`.

Rails 7.0 is able to read both formats so the cache won't be invalidated during
the upgrade.

### Active Storage video preview image generation

Video preview image generation now uses FFmpeg's scene change detection to

> generate more meaningful preview images. Previously the first frame of the video

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate meaningful preview images. Previously, the first frame of the video
```

#### Deploy to production

> Active Storage encodes into the url for the image the list of transformations
> that must be performed. If your app is caching these urls, your images will
> break after you deploy the new code to production. Because of this you must
> manually invalidate your affected cache keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active Storage encodes the list of image transformations directly into the image URL. 
If your application caches these URLs, the images may no longer load correctly after 
deploying new code to production. To address this, you’ll need to manually invalidate 
the affected cache keys.
```

### Rails version is now included in the Active Record schema dump

> Rails 7.0 changed some default values for some column types. To avoid that
> application upgrading from 6.1 to 7.0 load the current schema using the new 7.0
> defaults, Rails now includes the version of the framework in the schema dump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails 7.0 changed the default values for certain column types. To ensure 
that applications upgrading from 6.1 to 7.0 don’t load their schema using 
the new defaults, Rails now records the framework version in the schema dump.
```

More information about this change and details about the API changes can be
found [in this PR](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/32313).

> Upgrading Versions before 6.0

Reviewer: I was considering whether it might be cleaner to present this as a list instead.

**Before:** 
<img width="1620" height="969" alt="CleanShot 2025-08-17 at 13 37 47@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7a7fce2-15a4-429b-94ed-982603a07a15" />

**After**:
<img width="1413" height="734" alt="CleanShot 2025-08-17 at 13 42 10@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ce7fce7-632a-4c88-88a0-65f0027fc4e6" />

The trade-off is that the links no longer appear in the sidebar since they’re no longer headings. I don’t feel strongly about this, but I thought this version looked a bit cleaner.
